FTP - 20, 21 = Transfers computer files between a client and server on a computer network. It is an unsecure method, and data is transferred in the clear.
SSH - 22 = Cryptographic network protocol for operating network services securely over an unsecured network. Best known for remote login to computer systems by users.
SFTP - 22 = Provides file access, file transfer, and file management over any reliable data stream.
Telnet - 23 = Provides bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication facility using a virtual terminal connection. Similar to SSH but insecure.
SMTP - 25 = Internet standard for sending electronic mail. Originally defined in RFC 821 in 1982, and current version is defined in RFC 5321 developed in 2008.
DNS - 53 = Hierarchical decentralized naming system for computers, services, or other resources connected to the Internet or a private network. Converts domain names to IP addresses.
DHCP - 67, 68 = DHCP server dynamically assigns an IP address and other network configuration parameters to a client.
TFTP - 69= Transmits files in both directions of a client-server application. Used for booting an operating system from a local area network file server. It doesn't provide user authentication or directory visibility and is essentially a stripped-down version of FTP.
HTTP - 80= The foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web (WWW). It is designed for distributed, collaborative, and hypermedia presentation across many devices.
POP3 - 110= Used by local e-mail clients to retrieve e-mail from a remote server over a TCP/IP connection.
NTP - 123= Provides clock synchronization between computer systems over packet-switched, variable-latency data networks. It was created in 1985 and is one of the oldest Internet protocols in current use.
NetBIOS - 139= Network Basic Input/Output System. Provides services allowing applications on separate computers to communicate over a local area network for file and printer sharing.
IMAP - 143= Provides e-mail clients with the ability to retrieve e-mail messages from a mail server over a TCP/IP connection. It allows the end user to view and manipulate the messages as if they're stored locally.
SNMP - 161= Provides collection and organization of information about managed devices on IP networks. It can modify that information to change device behavior and is commonly used in network devices.
LDAP - 389= Open, vendor-neutral, industry standard for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services. It is used by LDAP and Active Directory.
HTTPS - 443= The foundation of e-commerce on the World Wide Web. It is designed for adding security to the insecure HTTP protocol.
SMB - 445= Provides shared access to files, printers, and miscellaneous communications between devices on a network.
Syslog - 514= Used to send logging data back to a centralized server.
SMTP TLS - 587= A secure and encrypted way to send emails.
LDAPS - 636= Open, vendor-neutral, industry standard for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services. It provides secure directory services.
IMAP over SSL - 993= A secure and encrypted way to receive emails.
POP3 over SSL - 995= A secure and encrypted way to receive emails using the Post Office Protocol Version 3.
SQL Server Protocol - 1433= Used for communication from a client to the database engine, typically associated with Microsoft SQL Server.
SQLnet Protocol - 1521= Used for communication from a client to an Oracle database.
MySQL - 3306= Used for communication from a client to the MySQL database engine.
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)- 3389= A proprietary protocol developed by Microsoft that provides a user with a graphical interface to connect to another computer over a network connection. The user employs RDP client software for this purpose, and the other computer must run RDP server software.
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)- 5060, 5061= Provides signaling and controlling multimedia communication sessions in applications. It is used for Internet telephony for voice and video calls, VOIP, and instant messaging.